Hello everyone, we will talk about Kegami, about our corrections applications for Plasma
Mobile and Plasma Desktop, so who I am, I'm a KD developer since 2018, I'm a member of
the KD EV Foundation since 2019 and I started using the KD by basically like working on the
website and the commutations and then I started doing applications. I worked with multiple
Kegami applications, not to learn, for example Nailchart, Matrix Client, Contrast, Contrast
Shaking applications, Tokodon, Muslim Client, Calendar, like it's like a calendar applications
but also like there's a bit more fun calendar, for example contacts and soon emails and I
am now like an hip-hop reader. I work at Kedab but she started three years ago before I
worked at Nest Hub. So what is Kegami? Kegami is like a framework, you have to tweak it to
basically like build project applications, it's written in QML, the QML is like a language
delivery paper by Qt, it's a declarative language, basically like it's sort of mix of JSON and
JavaScript and that's really good integration with C++, so you can always use C++ often.
It was basically Kegami was developed to build mobile and applications in the Nokia times
when Qt was updated by Nokia and that's why we are also using that for past mobile but
also like to develop original applications not only for mobile but also for desktop.
So yeah, basically how it works is that you have multiple pages, you can see like two pages,
one of them is the list of emails and the second page with the content of the email.
There's also like a driver concept, basically you can have things on the left and right,
additional information, this is like a thing or it looks on the stock and on mobile you
get only one page displayed at the right time, like you can see of two and only one, but it's
quite the same UI, it's still like the same code but right and for the better, the drivers
are also mobile friendly, so you can see on the left you have some of the collapses.
Basically there's two ways to have page pages, either you put them in the column, like here,
this page is for each of us, or you can as a layer on top of each of us and each page
has some actions, you can basically add some buttons on the top, details if you want, but
basically like how you build the key applications, you see like there's like a few concepts with
the pages and the drivers and that basically of most of the key applications that they
will put.
For example, for shell applications like NeoChat, you only have two pages, one left for the list
of users or sheds and one right with a few sheds, and yeah, it's as it looks, yeah.
And basically like how Kigami started was 2015, we announced Plasma Mobile, but at that
time we are still using the Plasma components, so basically the same components that we are
using for the Plasma desktop, we are using them to create applications, but these are
squeezing issues because first they got a look of Plasma applets as in applications,
key applications, maybe as in the net convergence, so you are basically like to build applications
for mobile and other applications for desktop, same for safety, there's a lot of duplications
of efforts.
So I try like one year later with Marco Matting, I'm a tinder of Kigami, created Kigami to
basically only have to build one applications for both mobile and desktop, I mean this is
like a long time ago, eight years ago, seven years ago, and then we tried to add more integration
with the desktop because even at the beginning of the Kigami applications we are more like
mobile applications still, so one of the things that we did first was like to create a team
for the desktop called QQC2 desktop team, basically like critical controls, the framework
that we are, the critical QML allows you to have teams that basically implement the features,
so we have like a desktop team, what is, looks like a desktop applications, normal QQQ applications.
When you're later, we did a lot of work as well as the colors, but they use the same
colors and the desktop, as a Kigami application uses the same colors as normal QQQ applications.
Before 2020, there was like almost no device that we could use Kigami, so the desktop was
quite slow, because I mean there was Nexus 5, what kind of works with, but it was still
small, old device that was slow, really slow, and yeah, when there was 2020, Pine 64 announced
the Pine phone, and I think that really helped to get new contributors, and I mean as a way
I started contributing to PlusNorway, it was a natural Pine phone, you add finally like
a device that you could buy, and what supported Linux on, yeah, and last year, we also launched
the Kigami add-ons, I will go more on to that later, yeah, basically like, at the recent
times, we like felt it brought in new components, like for example, yes, the settings from Tocodon,
the Mustang account, yeah, we worked for example, there was a new chat, there was a list to have
a nice look, and again, the Tocodon settings, actually it's a mobile form components, but
it allows to basically, mostly doing forms, but we are also using that for other stuff,
basically display information, we are still a bit the idea of GNOME for that, because
they look quite nice, and it allows basically like some comparisons of the forms, one of
the last introductions, we added to Kigami, we are going to do this as a tree views, it's
in calendars, it allows to do tree, display information as a tree, pretty useful for the
task view in a calendar, where you can see the task and the task, yeah, another one last
introduction that I created, what I contributed to is a search pop-up, it's a nice component,
where you can basically have a search filled with a pop-up, but up here, when you click
on it with the results, it's pretty nice, I think, with nice animations, but yeah, that's
mostly it.
Thank you very much, questions, comments, yeah, yeah, I was interested in how many devices
support platform mobile, or most productive device to use platform mobile?
Can you repeat?
What kind of devices support platform mobile well?
I mean there is a pine phone, a pine phone poor, that's like supporting it as well, when
there's a basically platform mobile team doesn't really like do all the other implementations,
we focus on the UI, because it's where we are quite good at, but the post-market OS
folks, I mean, everything that's on post-market OS, for example, can run platform mobile,
because it's basically like just a shell on top of post-market OS, or Manjaro, as a mobile
edition, and there's like a lot of other small distributions, I think, open source as a mobile
variant, and basically everything that's called mainline.
The important thing is that it needs to be mainline support, we at the beginning supported
other like, not mainline devices, but we had to stop that, because there's too much work
to support both this sort of device and mainline, we had a lot of issues with telecommunications
stack, because we had the LiboFono, what we were using, but it wasn't really working well
for us, so we switched to a network mobile manager, but basically every device that runs
mainline Linux would also run platform mobile, I mean, you can also run it on the desktop
if you wanted, I wouldn't recommend that, but you can also do that.
May I ask one more question, Isra, what is the long term of the platform mobile project,
what's your goal?
I mean, we have partnership with Pine 64, so they shipped personal phones, but it's
quite hard to, I mean, Pine is no mainstream mobile manifesto as support for mainline
Linux, and they're not really interested to support that, and they're not really interested
to have something else run under it, because I mean, there's not enough applications,
I mean, it's one of the issues, under its ecosystem has a lot of applications, we can
actually like, there's a way to run applications on past mobile, but see like, yes, before
we can maybe see like a, it's run on installed on our mainstream devices.
I'm mostly focusing on applications, because that's the thing, it's a part where we are
lacking the most native applications, I don't really do the pass-machel stuff.
Other questions?
Do you have some kind of support for progressive web apps?
I think there is, as a browser, I think there is, does support, okay, see web app, you
know, correctly, was implemented by Yonah a few years ago.
Do you have any support for switching light mode and dark mode?
Basically it's using the color shims API, but basically it works, so if you, in your
chat it's implemented, you can basically switch on the color shims, but by default it just
follows what the plasma colors are, so if you are, it's basically like we are trying
to have the key applications that are quite new and not yet completely mature, to like
hooks and have exactly like the older QT widget applications, so basically like if you change
the colors, every application will change the colors, the QT widget one and the QT one.
But you can as well implement, especially what one application should only be one team,
one color, as possible.
Yeah?
Do you see more KD desktop applications being ported to Kirigami in the future?
It's always like a bit of a controversial team, I'm, I've been with Calendar, I've been basically
like, watching with Clodio, the entire PIM stack, all the KOOF applications, like Calendar,
Mail, Contact, it's quite a bit of work, I think it's worth it because it looks a bit
more nicer, but it's still like a lot of work to get it completely right, and I'm, what
you really want is basically like, at least the Kirigami applications and the QT widget
applications, because we can't get rid of all the QT widget applications and what everything
looks the same, what they work the same, so when you interact with it, it should be like
consistent.
I mean, that's our goal, because we can't just go with everything in Kirigami.
Thank you.
No more?
If not, then thank you very much.
Yeah.
So, we have 15 minutes left.